[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Wisenthal.
>> Joe, can I start this conversation with
what will seem like a random story, but
I swear I have a point. and go on.
>> Okay. So, a long long time ago when I
was visiting my mother in Beijing one
winter, she was working out there.
Beijing winters are really cold. They're
really dry. And I was sat in her
apartment and all of a sudden I hear
this giant crack.
>> And I run downstairs and it turns out
the console that the TV was on had just
like completely split in half because
the air was so dry and it was so
freaking cold. And I never considered
that you could have weather locations
where the weather was so extreme that
you actually had to factor that into
your furniture.
>> I never thought I mean I do have one
sort of connection to that which is uh
we're going to start bragging about our
international experiences etc. You know,
I've mentioned my family lived in uh
Malaysia for a year and we bought this
big round table that we brought back
with us to Illinois and I do remember
now that there was some discussion about
like, oh, this was designed for the
humidity of Malaysia, etc. Maybe have
some natural give, etc., but it was
fine. But it's funny you say that cuz
yes, now I would not have remembered
that otherwise.
>> All right. Well, the reason I bring it
up,
>> we're so sophisticated in international
>> sophisticated. I hope everyone's
factoring in climate considerations into
their furniture, but there is actually a
reason that I'm bringing that up, which
is we are in Alaska, and Alaska does
have cold, very, very dry winters, and
it's also very, very large. It's very
hard to get things into and out of the
state. And so, I think it would be
really interesting if we actually talked
about the furniture industry within
Alaska.
>> We need no more introduction. We need no
more. Let's do it.
>> All right. So, we do in fact have the
perfect guest. We're going to be
speaking with Dave Kavitt. He is the CEO
and founder of Furniture Enterprises of
Alaska. So, really the perfect person to
speak to. Dave, thank you so much for
coming on All Thoughts.
>> Thank you so much for having me here.
>> So, tell us about Furniture Enterprises
of Alaska. What exactly are you doing
there?
>> Yep. We are furniture retailers. We have
14 stores under six different brand
names. And so we have our stores are uh
Sadler's furniture, Williams and K home
furnishings which is more design and
custom order products. Saders is
midmarket. We have two Ashley stores
that are a licency of them. We have
three mattress firm stores, a Lazy Boy
store and a Ultimate Mattress store
which is a higherend mattress retailer.
So what we do is we segment the
different demographics in the
marketplace and then combine the
operations back behind it to be able to
deliver the furniture at a lower cost
than other companies. And uh tell us a
little bit about you mentioned the size
of the retail footprint. Tell us a
little bit about the history. How did
you get into this? Are you a native
Alaskan? Are you we learned the term
sourdough recently. Are you a sourdough?
What's the story of you and your
company?
>> Yes, I am a sourdough now. I am 69 years
old. I um grew up in central California
in the farming area and it was not the
right fit for me. So, two weeks out of
high school, I hitchhiked up here kind
of thing by myself and already
>> that I uh did several different odd
jobs. Um short-term as a commercial
fisherman, but we sunk the boat. Uh that
was not good. I was a janitor and bed
maker on the north slope during the
building of the pipeline and then I went
as a day labor to a furniture company
and stayed there ever since.
>> This is already really fascinating. So,
one thing that Joe and I are learning
about Alaska in real time is it is
incredibly cyclical and sort of you have
these boom bust cycles that are tied to
what's happening in the oil industry.
So, you mentioned making beds when the
pipeline was getting constructed. Is it
fair to say that furniture sales follow
that boom bust cycle as well? When
there's a lot of activity, lots of
people moving to Alaska and building
stuff. Do you suddenly see demand for
furniture ramp up and then when it kind
of goes bust? Do people start selling
their I don't know their beds on the
corner?
>> Yes, we definitely have our cycles.
They're not as extreme as that they once
were. The largest of those booms and
bust was the building of the pipeline.
And then the first years of the oil
revenue for the state that came in and
then the state built a lot of
infrastructure and those were booming
times and there would be whole
subdivisions built on spec and that type
of thing as it was growing and then the
oil prices dropped to around $8 a barrel
and the construction stopped and the
people moved out of the state. So back
in the mid 1980s, Alaskans knew all the
terms of your house being underwater and
people uh mailing their keys back to the
bank and that kind of thing. And about a
third of the homes in Anchorage at that
time were walked out on vac vacated by
>> the ownersh.
>> So that was worst of the bust.
>> How did the furniture how did you at
that point had you already started your
furniture operations? Like where were
you in your career at that point? Yes, I
was then a half owner of the furniture
company that I'd gone to work for and it
was just terrible. I mean, revenues
dropped like 70% type of things. We had
14 banks and savings and loans at that
time and half of them were closed by the
FDIC or the whatever the savings and
loan one is called again at that time.
And so we ended up having to do workouts
with the banks and the FDIC and people
along that line.
>> Sorry, before I forget, were you really
on a commercial whailing? Oh, sorry.
Were you
>> upstairs?
>> Yeah. No, no, no. Listeners need no
further context.
>> Does everyone know that Joe is obsessed
with Moby Dick and Whailing at this
point to the point where you
accidentally introduce it into
sentences?
>> Uh, you're on a commercial fishing boat.
Did it really crash? And were there any
sort of did that, you know, when is
there lessons from business that you
could take from the allegory of of going
down on a ship? Yeah, I think it would
be to uh it didn't go down uh with us on
on it. It did go down
>> and I I think it would be to uh
interview the uh person leading that uh
I was um I just got up to Alaska. I met
another fellow who was the same age I
was, but uh we were both just turned 18,
but he had a fishing boat and said that
uh I could work on it. He wouldn't pay
me, but I'd get experience. And we went
out and he ended up not knowing what he
was doing and we got caught into a
storm, heavy seas, and that boat took on
a lot of water and the engines died and
we were hailing a Mayday out in the Gulf
of Alaska. And luckily a another ship, a
tanker, heard it and said, "Do you want
us to call the Kodiak Coast Guard for
you?" We said, "Absolutely, cuz we are
sinking." And they came back and said,
"Boys, we got bad news for you. It's too
rough.
>> Oh,
>> they're not coming.
>> And they came out and got you.
>> That tanker did.
>> Yeah.
>> The Coast Guard. It was too rough.
>> Coast Guard couldn't but
>> Yeah. Couldn't do it. And so they came
out and it took us a little while of the
boats bumping together. They were 550 ft
long. We were 42 ft and it slapped
together at one time. They hung a ladder
off the edge of that boat and I saw that
and I scrambled up to the
>> Must have been the most satisfied ladder
you've seen in your whole life.
>> Absolutely. We thought we were we
thought we were goners,
>> you know, because you only last half an
hour in that cold water.
>> So,
>> okay. So, no more fishing from fishing
to furniture. Yep.
>> What should people know about furniture
sales in Alaska? What are the special
considerations versus say furniture
sales in the lower 48?
>> Yeah. The biggest thing that separates
us from the lower 48 is the additional
freight cost to Alaska. You know, we're
a long ways by road. We only have the
one road, the Alaska Highway, which goes
through Canada and up to us and and only
heavy equipment really gets shipped over
that. Everything else is shipped to the
Port of Seattle and then put onto ships
and it takes 3 days for those shipments
to arrive to us. And it's um we pay more
for that freight from Seattle to
Anchorage than we do from the containers
that we bring in from China and Vietnam,
Malaysia in those areas. Yeah.
>> So, explain that more. Intra US
shipments are costlier than
trans-pacific shipments.
>> Yes. I just checked because I figured it
might come up. We're paying currently
$1,900
China to Seattle of then we have to
reload that onto a carrier that can
bring it up to here and it's about
$9,000 from
>> Wow.
>> Seattle to here.
>> Is there a Jones Act? Sorry, but I have
to Is there a Jones Act angle to this
story?
>> Jones Act is a part of that for sure.
>> Wow.
>> Jones Act everywhere. Can you not get
shipments direct from China? Could that
happen?
>> No. There is nowhere near the volume out
of the Anchorage area and where the port
goes. There's maybe 650,000 people. We
have about 760 in the state, I think.
And so, we just don't have just no
economies.
>> So, I have to imagine that one of the
keys to running a successful furniture
business in Alaska is you have to be
really, really good at shipping and
logistics. And to some extent, it sounds
like you're basically running a
distribution center for furniture,
right? Is that the thing that you're
sort of competing on or is that the area
of expertise that you really have to
have in order to be successful in this
business?
>> I would say yes. We are good at the
merchandising. We're good at the market
segmentation, the advertising. We're
good at everything, but we excel in
logistics. We have a full-time person.
We're not that big a company, but a
full-time person that puts together
those and uh is always negotiating the
the rates and trying to make sure that
every container is filled to the maximum
that can be. We can't pay for dead air
space and containers. What was 2021
like? So, you know, we as a podcast
first started getting really interested
in, you know, shipping and logistics and
freight is very important because like
everyone else, we didn't think about it
much in the 2010s when there was plenty
of excess capacity. And then what was
2021 and 2022 like during those sort of
extreme levels of both inflation and uh
you know, just bottlenecks in the supply
chains.
>> You know, those were trying times for
us, but at least everybody was in that
same boat. Yeah. going to say and we had
to put out our orders where we usually
try to put them out a few months in
advance. We were having to put them up
out up to 8 to 10 months in advance. And
of course the freight rates were coming
in. We had been paying about $1,700 a
container transpacific before that. And
I think our peak was around 22,000
for a container. But the demand was
there you know and during that time it's
was the biggest boom for the furniture
industry that's ever been because as
people in COVID times could not go to
the bars and the restaurants. They
weren't traveling and they decided to
take that money that they usually spend
other places and put it into furniture
and so uh we had to pass on those costs
to the consumers of course but it
happened and
>> it worked. At times like that, how does
it work in terms of getting inventory?
Because I imagine it's not just Alaskan
residents that want a whole bunch of new
furniture because they're stuck inside
and everyone feels like redecorating
their house at that particular moment in
time. People in the lower 48 are doing
the exact same thing. It's probably not
enough furniture stock to go around at
that particular moment. How are you
actually placing orders? And I guess how
does it work in general when you're
buying inventory from big brands like a
Lazy Boy or like a mattress firm,
>> right? That's really two different
things. One, if we're talking about
during the COVID times, we had to align
ourselves and ensure that the people
that we're placing the orders with would
actually ship them. And we put a lot of
focus into that. We did narrow down our
selection to people that could get it
shipped to us finally, even though there
was um rolling delays on that at all
times. And then along with the
manufacturing delays, then they would go
and put the containers into the Vietnam
or China ports and you couldn't get the
bookings on the the shipping, right?
>> That that was overburdened type of
thing.
>> But it's different now. It's back closer
to how it has been in the past. And we
go to the furniture markets. We go to
four of them a year and we select the
items. And then when we bring something
into our showrooms, we start the backup
process and ordering in what we think
demand is going to be. We do keep those
items on our showrooms and then we sell
our backstock and we sell into incoming
stock. So we're keeping a close hand on
when the arrival dates are going to be
so that our sales staff can say this is
out of stock right now. It's coming in
in three weeks and we can even book a
delivery date from that that point.
>> So, I didn't realize there are furniture
markets, but I guess that makes sense.
So, the idea is these are big like
wholesale furniture markets where you
have the wholesalers sort of unveiling
what they might have available to the
retailers every year.
>> Yes, there's two in High Point, North
Carolina, and then two in Las Vegas that
we attend. the ones in High Point where
you should find out a little bit about
it. It is just a massive
>> market that's tens of millions of square
feet manufacturers displaying the new
products.
[Music]
I want to talk about the contemporary
economy a little bit. One angle that
strikes me is very furniture relevant is
housing. And due to interest rates,
there's a lot of perceived stagnation. I
mean, there is a lot of stagnation in
the housing industry in general. Not a
lot of people aren't moving due to
mortgage lock in. There's not a lot of
new construction happening right now due
to financing costs. What are you seeing?
Like I don't know much about the Alaska
housing market, but you know, what are
you seeing in the Alaska housing market
right now and I have to imagine whatever
is happening feeds into the impulse to
buy new furniture or not? Yeah,
unfortunately on in 2015 Alaska the oil
prices took a dip and when that went
down then the oil companies laid off
their people and a lot of them and since
then we've not recovered. So we are now
in the 10 years of a
>> uh recession in in my opinion home
building in Anchorage has been very
slight. only a 25 to 50 homes a year
have been built in the past decade. And
so each one of those is an opportunity
for us to furnish. But it's been pretty
slow. We've had a decrease in our
population from about 305,000 to about
285,000
maybe somewhere in that uh right now.
Home building in the rest of the state
has been slow. The only place that is
happening is in the Matnusa Valley,
which is um about 35 mi outside of
Anchorage. Land is less expensive there.
There's less municipal regulation and
that kind of thing. So, they're building
several hundred homes out there a year
and that's our hot spot right now.
>> Talk more about that. So when you see a
particular area of Alaska booming or
when you hear that I don't know there's
going to be you know some new oil
project built in one particular town or
city do you immediately start thinking
like well maybe we need to open a store
over there do you sort of direct your
business to where that oil money is
going?
>> No. It's a good question but no where
the oil is developed is on the north
slope of Alaska and there is no town
there. It is just the oil camps there.
The closest to that are some uh native
villages like Barrow which is now called
Up AIC and there's another native
village up there but those are a few
hundred people kind of thing. So no no
market. All the infrastructure is
through the Anchorage area.
>> Talk to us about tariffs. What
substantively are you seeing on that
front?
>> Tariffs are troubling to me. I lean as a
conservative. I'm not really a I'm not a
Democrat nor a Republican. I'm a
independent nonpartisan kind of thing.
It's troubling, you know, because um we
buy product from China, but now there's
all the tariffs that are happening there
that can price out that product to the
marketplace. Today I heard that India is
doubling from 25 to a 50% and we have
now switched over just had recently
switched over some of our imports to
India
>> and I was looking at those yesterday and
thinking oh those are a couple of good
bedroom sets
>> so planning must be brute I mean setting
aside setting aside cost and we'll get
to cost just the idea of like any sort
of forward planning
>> it's brutal right now you know if you're
the size of a Walmart or you know these
uh Home Depot or something, you can
probably get the manufacturers to
guarantee you prices. We are way under
that level and we just have to take what
they are going to add on to it. But
they're into lack of confidence in how
things are working out themselves.
They're skittish and so some of them of
the manufacturers won't ship if they
think that there's going to be a sharp
increase in the tariffs because they
don't want to ship and then have the
people they're shipping to say
>> not pay it.
>> Not pay it.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, interesting. Yeah. And what about
just in terms of the added price from
the tariffs at the moment? Are you
planning to absorb most of that yourself
or do you pass it on to customers in a
state where you know costs are already
pretty high just because it's so remote
and everything has to be shipped in?
>> Right. We're having to look at those and
some of them we go hard back onto the
manufacturer saying they're going to
have to take on a lot of that and they
did originally just absorb portions of
that and then started adding some back
to the uh cost and then we're absorbing
some again like retail we were we're
takinging the markups where we can but
in some of it is too price sensitive and
we're just having to eat that for right
now and it's too volatile. Um,
>> yeah. I think I told you, Joe, but I
went to there's like a local British
import shop
>> in I think it was in Vermont recently.
Uh, and so they import everything from
the UK. It's like, come here to get
British candy and British groceries. And
they basically just stopped publishing
their prices because the tariffs were
changing on an almost daily basis and
they were like, you know what, it's too
much trouble to try to update all our
pricing to take this into account. So,
we're just like not putting them on.
>> Yeah. say more about cuz this is from
the perspective of the Fed. I mean this
is the trillion dollar question about
the degree to which tariffs can be
passed on to the consumer or not etc.
And I'm just curious like how you think
about like pricing in general and how
you sense when there's an opportunity to
push price a little bit more have the
customer defay some of those costs or
not like talk just a little bit about
what you're seeing on that front. Our
pricing, even though we're pretty remote
and everything like that, goes back to
national pricing. And if we get too high
in our pricing, then consumers will shop
in the lower 48 and pay that additional
shipping up to here themselves. So
that's always something we always have
to make sure that we're, you know,
negating that difference.
>> Yeah. Do you sense just in terms of like
the economic cycle right now like
setting aside tariffs, how does end
demand feel among consumers in August
2025 than it would have been in August
2024? Is there any slowdown in any of
the segments that you perceive? Are
there some segments that are more robust
than others? Yeah, it's softer right now
and a large portion of of that softness
I do believe goes back to consumer
confidence and whenever the consumer
confidence waines and then they push off
deferable large ticket purchases and we
see that right now.
>> Well, one of the reasons we wanted to
talk to you is because you have, you
know, furniture brands that cover a sort
of spectrum of consumers. So, you have
higherend versus maybe, you know, more
budget items. Do you see segmentation in
consumer demand between you know maybe
people who are buying
>> slightly more modest furniture versus
the people who are buying more higherend
or custom?
>> Yes. Right now and with my knowledge of
the furniture industry uh nationwide is
that of course the higher end is more
insulated from that. And when it gets
down to the starting price points that
we have for people, let's say that are
apartment, you know, dwellers, renters,
and stuff like that instead of
homeowners. And with the inflation
taking a bite out of their incomes,
that's where we're seeing it hit us the
hardest.
>> What are you seeing on the labor supply,
particularly, I imagine, like movers or
people who deliver the furniture or
either retail workers in the showrooms,
etc. How easy is it to hire right now?
>> Uh, not easy at all. It's a little bit
better now than it was a couple years
ago, but it is very difficult.
>> Why? What What's the What's the
constraint?
>> Well, it's it's there's more jobs
available than people.
>> What?
>> What are the sectors that are like where
are they when you look at like, okay,
there's some prospective employee and
they could choose to work between you
and someone else and you're competing
with some other employer. What are these
sources of employment demand that you're
competing with here in Alaska? Uh with
us, you know, we're a very non-skilled
labor force and so we bring in the
people. Preandemic,
we were starting people at about $15 an
hour for any position. And now we're at
21 to $25 an hour type of thing and they
come into us unskilled and then we have
to build the skills with them type of
thing. So we're not looking for people
with degrees and education and that kind
of thing, just workforce. And again,
they if if they don't like being retail,
we need to work weekends. If they don't
want to work a weekend, they can find
another job someplace else.
>> Since Joe brought up constraints on
labor, I'm going to ask what's becoming,
I guess, a classic question in a lot of
these episodes, but what would you say
is the biggest constraint on your own
business? Whether it's finding enough
workers, whether it's sourcing enough
furniture, whether it's shipping costs,
maybe it's regulation that's, you know,
limiting the amount of homes that can
actually be built around Anchorage.
What's the biggest one for you?
>> The biggest one for us is the uh the
decline that we've had in the
population.
>> Mhm.
>> And and this and it's now rebounding
from that, but it's going to be slow or
it is slow. And so it's just the the
size of the marketplace. We have stores
in Anchorage, Fairbanks, uh the Kai
Peninsula, and the Matnus Valley. And in
between that, it's about 550,000 people
in our total market that can drive to
one of our stores. We do sell some to
the people of what we call the bush
communities where we sell it to them,
but we have to load it into airplanes
and that type of thing, and it has to be
flown out to them
>> type of thing. So, it is just the
population. Is there a rate sensitivity
aspect of your business either towards
your own cost of capital or I have to
imagine some of the buying is borrowed
or the consumer is borrowing to money to
buy the bed etc. Do you see any sort of
clear link between high interest rates
right now and how your business
operates? the amount of consumers that
are financing the purchase that we do do
like the uh financing.
>> We have that available for them and then
we run the promotions where we do 36
months up to uh 60 months without
interest that we pay for that interest
up front to the U finance company. But
that is still that is slowed way down
over the peak that it was pre- pandemic
as people are just not they're concerned
about getting into too much debt.
>> Sure. How much of the slowdown in
customer demand post pandemic? How much
of that has to do with just people
bought a lot of stuff in 2122 and maybe
you don't need you know another new bed
for a while or another new coffee table
or something like that versus actually
we are seeing a sort of fundamental
structural slowdown in the amount of
stuff that people are able to buy.
Yes, I am not smart enough to understand
that during the pandemic what we did was
made up for past purchases that they
didn't make or if they bought into the
future.
>> I really don't know uh the difference
and maybe a few years from now some
smart people will write something I'll
read it and say oh yeah that's it
>> kind of thing but it had to do it. Now,
furniture when you buy it, like a dining
room table, most people are expecting to
get 20 25 years out of it unless it
splits from uh too much uh moisture left
in in the wood
>> kind of thing. But furniture does last 5
to 25 years. So, it's a very slow cycle.
What would you tell your 18-year-old
self about life in Alaska and doing
business and a career in Alaska? That is
maybe the most surprising or most
interesting or the most important lesson
for that trajectory you've had. All
right. So, being kind of personal when I
was a teenager and stuff, I had no
self-confidence. Uh that type of thing.
I didn't do well in school. I didn't
understand why, but I have some learning
disabilities and that type of thing. I
got up here, thought I'd be a laborer,
that kind of stuff. So then anyway I got
into the furniture business turned out
to be pretty good at it and I run a good
business there still is the economies
come and go to Alaska and that kind of
stuff but the basic of the uh state has
never lost its luster for me. I love
living here. Uh I love the mountains. I
love the animals. I mean we have
hundreds of bear and thousands of moose
that live within the city of Anchorage
and you see them and that kind of thing.
I still get all excited about that.
>> Who's walking down the street while I'm
here?
>> I'm telling you, you that can happen
more in the winter time than the
summertime, but in the winter time,
yeah, you got to break and let them go
through walk through Midtown. And
they're big animals, too.
>> Anyway, I uh Good times, bad times, I'm
staying here. Love it.
>> Have you ever had a furniture delivery
disrupted by wild animals?
>> Not that I can think of.
>> All right. Well behaved moose, then. I
have just one more question I think
which is the other thing that I I think
maybe unusual about Alaska is again
because it's so remote because it's
quite difficult in some respects to get
new materials, new items here. I imagine
there must be a lot of competition from
the used market. So if you have a bed,
you know, a bed's not a great example.
If you have a couch or a coffee table,
you want to buy something new, you're
not just going to throw that coffee
table away. you're probably going to try
to sell it on Facebook Marketplace or
something like that. Do you feel a lot
of competition from the used furniture
segment?
>> It's not that much competition for us
except for it is there and it is the
Facebook marketplace is
>> is where it is. So probably some of
these items get bought and sold a few
times. But again, that's usually for
younger people just getting started and
or a temporary. they're just going to
get something to, you know, last maybe
six months to a year and then buy better
quality furniture once they're
established. So, yes, it is there. It's
off our radar for the most part.
>> All right. Well, Dave, thank you so much
for coming on. That was really fun.
>> Thank you so much, too.
[Music]
Joe, imagine hitchhiking to Alaska to
become a commercial fisherman and then
get into the furniture business.
>> Imagine um getting into the commercial
fisherman business, finding someone
roughly your age and experience. You
know, it's hard not to be, you know, the
mind comes to uh Ishmael and Clequ from
the 1851 novel by Herman Melville movie
Dick and then um and then your boat
crashing and then uh and then uh saving
your life, etc.
>> That's where your mind goes, Joe.
>> It's hard not for the mind to drift
there.
>> Can I ask if we go on a whale watching
tour, am I just going to hear like
Captain Ahab references for three hours?
>> I'm just going to go around to everyone
on the boat. I'm gonna say, are you the
Ahab, the Ishmael, or the Starbucks? And
I'm just gonna ask and and I'm gonna
categorize everyone on the boat. But no,
that was a great like he was a great
Alaskan character.
>> A great Alaskan character. And also, I
still think the furniture industry is
such an interesting one to kind of look
at the economy through.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> It's an interesting lens to look at the
economy through. And there were a couple
things that I would pick out of that
conversation. So, one just on the
tariffs,
>> yeah,
>> there's a theme that we've heard over
and over again, which is the big guys
probably have the pricing power and the
relationship power in order to get a lot
of their manufacturers to try to absorb
some of the tariff costs in a way that
the smaller guys do not have. Well, and
to this point, it's really interesting
that the manufacturers themselves won't
accept certain orders because they're
not confident that the economics will
make sense at the end and that the
customer will just walk away from it.
Which is just a really interesting
dynamic. He's like, "No, like you could
just imagine like no, I swear I'll pay,
right? I swear I'm going to pay. I'm
good for it." And that adds another and
then this gets to like the idea of not
just tariff level, but tariff
volatility. Just like you wake up one
day and the tariffs double in India and
then you're like rethinking your
planning.
>> Exactly. And I I suspect you know like
the longer the tariff uncertainty
persist like the more behavior like that
you're going to see where people are
just like I don't know if we want to
strike this contract at all.
>> There's like two levels here, right?
Because tariffs mechanically raise the
cost of doing business. But then on a
more sort of abstract level it's just
business gets more costly in this
environment. And you know you always
hear oh people hate uncertainty etc. And
sometimes there's just this cliche that
people say because whatever, but here
it's like extremely extremely concrete.
>> The other thing that was really
interesting to me, and again, this is a
sort of broad theme that comes up quite
often on the show, but this idea of
>> if you're a homeowner in the current
environment, you kind of you have it
made, right? I mean, I guess depending
on what your mortgage rate is, but if
you bought before rates went up, you
have a lot of excess purchasing power
with which to buy new furniture for your
home versus, for instance, if you're a
renter and you're paying those higher
rents, you don't have that cushion from
like prepandemic rates. And so, it feels
like there's still this issue of halves
and have nots in the housing market that
still feeds into something like
furniture sales, too. I also think like
uh the economics of population decline
are just really interesting because
right small population that's very hard
to reverse because and we we've talked
about this in other areas which is that
you have some capital stock right like
you have a 100 houses okay and then you
have people move away those houses don't
just stay there they deteriorate over
time you don't you lose that capital
stock and so like how do you like
reverse
>> especially in Alaska if you're not doing
upkeep
>> yeah that's right and I mean we didn't
get into this but like that is just like
a sort of like problem of like the sort
of negative. It's very hard to reverse
the sort of decline in any business or
any industry because of just sort of the
constriction in supply side capacity
that occurs from structural decline.
>> It's also just broadly amazing how big a
deal the 2013 2015 oil bust actually
was. And I guess you know we were
covering the oil market at that time and
so we wrote a lot of stories about you
know
>> the feed through into the bond market
and stuff like that but a place like
Alaska is really feeling it in a very
real way and still right like almost a
decade later or a decade later I should
say kind of amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the
thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman Arman,
Dashelobel Bennett at Dashbot, and Kaleb
Brooks at Kalebrooks. For more OddLots
content, go to bloomberg.com/odlotss
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes, and you can chat about
all of these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we go on field trips to far-flung
places in Alaska, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]